🗣️ Full Speech Script for PPT Presentation (Internship Evaluation)

🎤 Slide 1: Title Slide – Introduction

"Good afternoon everyone, my name is Chitranshu Kushwaha, and I am currently pursuing a Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering. At present, I am undergoing a six-month internship at Capgemini Technology Services India Limited, which started on 16th January 2025 and will continue until 30th June 2025.

The title of the project I am working on is Online Course Seller Application. This application is being developed using a microservices-based backend architecture with Spring Boot, and a dynamic Angular frontend. Our project is designed to help users browse, purchase, and access various online courses with ease. This solution is scalable, cloud-deployable, and adheres to modern software engineering practices. Our team comprises three members, each contributing to different aspects of development."

🎤 Slide 2: About Capgemini & Internship Objective

"Before discussing the project, I would like to introduce the organization where I am interning—Capgemini Technology Services India Limited. Capgemini is a globally renowned leader in IT services, consulting, and digital transformation. It has a strong presence in India and worldwide, known for its excellence in delivering cloud computing, AI solutions, and enterprise-level software services.

During this internship, I was given the opportunity to learn and contribute to the real-world development of enterprise applications. My main objective is to gain hands-on experience in full-stack development, microservices architecture, API security, testing, and DevOps practices. The project is structured in a way that simulates a real development environment, following agile methodologies, version control systems, and collaborative practices."

🎤 Slide 3: Project Description – Online Course Seller Application

"The application I’m working on is called Online Course Seller Application. The aim of this application is to create a centralized platform where users can register, browse through various online courses, purchase them, and view them in their personal dashboards.

From an administrator’s perspective, it allows managing course information including descriptions, categories, pricing, and associated media like course images. It also includes a robust backend that maintains records of course purchases, performs role-based authentication, and integrates with third-party services for future features like email notifications and payment processing.

The entire system is divided into four key microservices:

Course Microservice: Manages all operations related to course data.

Purchase Microservice: Handles course purchases and payment initiation.

Notification Microservice: Sends email confirmations (planned integration).

API Gateway: Routes all client requests and provides a unified entry point.

This separation ensures better maintainability, loose coupling, and independent scalability of each service."

🎤 Slide 4: Technology Stack Used

"We adopted a modern technology stack to ensure scalability, performance, and ease of maintenance:

Backend Technologies:

Spring Boot for RESTful API development

Spring Security and JWT for user authentication

Spring Data JPA for database interaction

MySQL for relational data persistence

Frontend:

Angular for creating responsive and interactive user interfaces

Angular Material for consistent UI components

DevOps Tools:

Git and GitHub for version control

Postman for API testing

Swagger for API documentation

Docker for containerization of services

Jenkins and GitHub Actions for CI/CD pipelines

External Integrations:

Cloudinary for image hosting

Razorpay for payment processing (integration in progress)

Brevo SMTP for email service via Notification microservice (planned)"

🎤 Slide 5: Key Features and Functionalities

"The application is feature-rich and focuses on both functionality and user experience. Key features include:

User Authentication & Authorization:

Implemented JWT-based login and signup

Role-based access: Admins vs Regular Users

Course Management:

Admins can create, update, or delete courses

Images are uploaded to Cloudinary and served dynamically

Course Purchase Module:

Users can select and buy courses (payment gateway integration in progress)

Purchase history maintained per user

Dashboard Functionality:

Admin dashboard to view analytics and manage all courses

User dashboard to manage enrolled courses

API Gateway Security:

Centralized request management

Exception handling and logging

Testing:

Unit tests written using JUnit and Mockito

API testing using Postman to validate all services"

🎤 Slide 6: Advanced Concepts and Future Scope

"The project also incorporates several advanced technologies and is designed for future expansion:

Cloud-Ready Architecture:

All services are containerized using Docker and ready for deployment on platforms like AWS or Azure.

Service Discovery:

Implemented Eureka Server for automatic registration and discovery of services.

Security:

Endpoints protected using Spring Security and JWT-based authentication

Planned role management and OAuth 2.0 integration

Future Scope:

Integration with Razorpay for real-time transactions

Notification microservice for email alerts on purchases

AI-based course recommendation engine

Mobile application (Android/iOS) using REST APIs

Progressive Web App (PWA) support for offline access"

🎤 Slide 7: Learnings and Conclusion

"This internship has been an extremely rewarding experience for me. I learned to:

Work in a professional software development environment

Follow Agile methodology including daily standups and sprint reviews

Collaborate with team members using Git, GitHub, and JIRA

Write modular, scalable, and secure code in Spring Boot

Create modern, responsive user interfaces using Angular

Understand CI/CD pipelines, containerization, and testing strategies

This project helped bridge the gap between classroom learning and industry application. I feel more confident in backend and full-stack development, and I’ve also understood the importance of clean code, teamwork, and continuous learning."

🎤 Final Thank You

"Thank you all for your time and attention. I truly appreciate this opportunity to share my internship experience and project. I am happy to answer any questions you may have."

